# Ideogram 2.0 (official announcement, 2024-08-21)
Source: https://about.ideogram.ai/2.0 (archived via Wayback 20240821172539)

Ideogram 2.0 
 Follow us Careers Documentation Try Ideogram 2.0 Careers Documentation Try Ideogram 2.0 PRODUCT Design Content Publish RESOURCES Blog Careers Docs About FOLLOW US Discord X (twitter) Linkedin Instagram Aug 21, 2024 Aug 21, 2024 Ideogram 2.0 Ideogram 2.0 is now freely available to all users on ideogram.ai and our new iOS app ! Premium features are available via subscription plans . Developers can now build with Ideogram 2.0 using our new beta Ideogram API . We are excited to release Ideogram 2.0, our new frontier text to image model with industry leading capabilities in generating realistic images, graphic design, typography, and more. Trained from scratch like all Ideogram models, Ideogram 2.0 significantly outperforms other text to image models across many quality metrics, including image-text alignment, overall subjective preference, and text rendering accuracy. Today's milestone launch also includes the release of the Ideogram iOS app, the beta version of the Ideogram API, and Ideogram Search. One year ago, we announced the formation of Ideogram AI to advance the mission of making everyone become more creative. In the past year, our users have generated more than 1 billion images. This vast collection is now publicly accessible through Ideogram Search, providing a rich source of inspiration for all users. Additionally, the Ideogram iOS app brings our cutting edge platform to mobile users, and the Ideogram API brings our technology at the most competitive pricing to developers looking to enhance their applications and workflows. Enhanced Control over Image Style You can now choose from a number of distinct styles, including Realistic, Design, 3D and Anime. These styles are crafted specifically to render unique genres of images and have significant influence on your creations. You can now generate images in any aspect ratio, including 3:1 and 1:3. Realistic Style The Realistic style of Ideogram 2.0 enables you to create images that can convincingly pass as real photos. Textures are significantly enhanced, and human skin and hair appear lifelike. Design Style The Design style of Ideogram 2.0 significantly boosts the accuracy of text in the generated images. This enables you to create premium graphic designs for greeting cards, print on demand, posters, illustrations, and marketing and social media content with long, stylized text. This advancement will substantially improve the efficiency of the workflows of graphic designers and businesses. Color Palette Control You can now generate images that adhere to your specific color palette. This enables granular control of visual tones for purposes such as artistic control and brand consistency. iOS App Ideogram now offers an official dedicated iOS application, bringing Ideogram's powerful image generation capabilities to users on-the-go. An Android application is planned for release at a later date. Download now on the App Store . Build on the Ideogram API Our new API brings Ideogram's unique capabilities to developers and businesses looking to integrate Ideogram into their own applications. The API offers superior image quality at a lower cost compared to other offerings. We're excited to see the creative applications that will emerge from users of the Ideogram API. Join our public beta here , and learn about pricing here . Search through Community Images Ideogram's library of public creations are now available for text-based search. Now easily accessible for inspiration are over 1 billion publicly viewable images generated by Ideogram users in the last year. Advanced Prompting with Describe and Magic Prompt Magic Prompt and Describe are significantly improved to boost the creative process. You can use Describe to generate a detailed text prompt based on any original image, use Magic Prompt to write creative variations of the prompt, then use Generate to bring those prompts to life as fresh new images. This combination allows for endless creative iterations and reimaginings of any visual concept. Step 1: Input image A vintage poster with the text "Me travel? ...not this summer" and "VACATION AT HOME" at the bottom. There's a relaxed man dressed in a blue shirt and brown trousers reclining in a red armchair, reading a newspaper with text "USA Government". Beside him is a table with a glass jar filled with golden coins and a bottle. Above the man, there's a framed portrait of a young man in a military uniform. The overall theme suggests the idea of enjoying a comfortable and leisurely stay at home during the summer months. Step 2: Describe Step 3: Use the description as the prompt to generate a new image Step 1: Input image Step 1: Input image Step 1: Input image A vintage poster promoting 'VACATION AT HOME' during the summer. A relaxed man, dressed in a blue shirt and brown trousers, reclines in a red armchair, reading a newspaper. Beside him is a table with a glass jar filled with golden coins and a bottle. Above the man, there's a framed portrait of a young man in a military uniform. The poster's text reads 'Me travel? ...not this summer' and 'VACATION AT HOME' at the bottom. The overall theme suggests the idea of enjoying a comfortable and leisurely stay at home during the summer months. A vintage poster with the text "Me travel? ...not this summer" and "VACATION AT HOME" at the bottom. There's a relaxed man dressed in a blue shirt and brown trousers reclining in a red armchair, reading a newspaper with text "USA Government". Beside him is a table with a glass jar filled with golden coins and a bottle. Above the man, there's a framed portrait of a young man in a military uniform. The overall theme suggests the idea of enjoying a comfortable and leisurely stay at home during the summer months. A vintage poster with the text "Me travel? ...not this summer" and "VACATION AT HOME" at the bottom. There's a relaxed man dressed in a blue shirt and brown trousers reclining in a red armchair, reading a newspaper with text "USA Government". Beside him is a table with a glass jar filled with golden coins and a bottle. Above the man, there's a framed portrait of a young man in a military uniform. The overall theme suggests the idea of enjoying a comfortable and leisurely stay at home during the summer months. Step 2: Describe Step 3: Use the description as the prompt to generate a new image Step 3: Use the description as the prompt to generate a new image Step 3: Use the description as the prompt to generate a new image Industry-Leading Image Generation Ideogram 2.0 features significant advancements in image-prompt alignment, photorealism, and text rendering quality. Human evaluations consistently rate Ideogram 2.0 as a significant improvement over Flux Pro and DALL·E 3. Despite our improvement in image quality, our API pricing remains extremely competitive, lower than DALL·E 3 and on par with Flux Pro. We're Hiring! We're on a mission to develop generative media models to help people become more creative. If our mission resonates with you, then we’d love to hear from you. We're hiring for roles in AI research, engineering, and data operations. Join us to build the future of AI for creativity. Please apply at Ideogram Jobs . Thank You to Our Community We'd like to give special thanks to our beta testers, Ideogram Creators Club members, and the whole Ideogram community for helping us test Ideogram 2.0 and providing creative images used in this blog post. Special thanks to: AbandonedMuse , afranci , aitext2023 , Alexeverywhere , alexwoow , Anaconda , atheist_american , Blademort1988 , butterflygirl , Dee_nkai10 , destiny_rose , dirtracerk27 , doctorpangloss , donjorge , dshapiro . emerald5 , foobly , funkyraf , Jaicraft , jcreations , josiassevero , Kamyar , Kryptomonark , manifold , masdevallia , mysocialeq , nagelkarle , neocandor , phil_ozoff , philmcc , queencaffeine , red_poppy__ , Redrojo , saletlux , sragy , successfuelmedia , tanaj , thegrimreaper79 , thelasertwins , thrivinglioness , toyartuk , trinityturret , tron , whatsthisbutondo , ylucic . Aug 21, 2024 Ideogram AI