 Infinity Infinity∞ Scaling Bitwise AutoRegressive Modeling for High-Resolution Image Synthesis Exploring the Frontiers of Efficient Generative Foundation Models --> Jian Han * , Jinlai Liu * , Yi Jiang * , Bin Yan , Yuqi Zhang , Zehuan Yuan † , Bingyue Peng , Xiaobing Liu , * Equal contribution. † Corresponding author. --> Paper Code Huggingface Demo --> About Infinity We present Infinity, a Bitwise Visual AutoRegressive Modeling capable of generating high-resolution, photorealistic images following language instruction. Infinity redefines visual autoregressive model under a bitwise token prediction framework with an infinite-vocabulary tokenizer & classifier and bitwise self-correction mechanism, remarkably improving the generation capacity and details. By theoretically scaling the tokenizer vocabulary size to infinity and concurrently scaling the transformer size, our method significantly unleashes powerful scaling capabilities compared to vanilla VAR. Infinity sets a new record for autoregressive text-to-image models, outperforming top-tier diffusion models like SD3-Medium and SDXL. Notably, Infinity surpasses SD3-Medium by improving the GenEval benchmark score from 0.62 to 0.73 and the ImageReward benchmark score from 0.87 to 0.96, achieving a win rate of 66%. Without extra optimization, Infinity generates a high-quality 1024x1024 image in 0.8 seconds, making it 2.6x faster than SD3-Medium and establishing it as the fastest text-to-image model. Models and codes will be released to promote further exploration of Infinity for visual generation and unified tokenizer modeling. Several Core Design Details for Infinity     •   Pipeline: Infinity introduces bitwise modeling, which incorporates a bitwise multi-scale visual tokenizer, Infinite-Vocabulary Classifier (IVC), and Bitwise Self-Correction. When predicting R k , the sequence (R 1 , R 2 , ..., R k-1 ) serves as the prefixed context and the text condition guides the prediction through a cross attention mechanism. Different from VAR, Infinity performs next-scale prediction with bit labels.     •   Bitwise Visual Tokenizer: Increasing the vocabulary size has significant potential for improving reconstruction and generation quality. However, directly enlarging the vocabulary in existing tokenizers leads to a substantial increase in memory consumption and computational burden. To address these challenges and fully exploit the potential of discrete tokenizers, this paper proposes a new bitwise multi-scale residual quantizer, which significantly reduces memory usage, enabling the training of extremely large vocabulary, e.g. V d = 2 32 or V d = 2 64 .     •   Infinite-Vocabulary Classifier: Visual tokenizer quantizes continuous features and then gets index labels. Conventional classifier (left) predicts 2 d indices. Infinite-Vocabulary Classifier (right) predicts d bits instead. Slight perturbations to near-zero values in continuous features cause a complete change of index labels. Bit labels (i.e. quantized features) change subtly and still provide steady supervision. Besides, parameters of conventional classifiers grow exponentially as d increases, while IVC grows linearly. If d = 32 and h = 2048, the conventional classifier requires 8.8 trillion parameters, exceeding current compute limits. By contrast, IVC only requires 0.13M parameters.     •   Bitwise Self-Correction: VAR inherits the teacher-forcing training from LLMs. We find that the teacher-forcing training brings about severe train-test discrepancy for visual generation. In particular, the teacher-forcing training makes the transformer only refine features in each scale without the ability to recognize and correct mistakes. Mistakes made in former scales will be propagated and amplified in latter scales, finally messing up generated images. In this work, we propose Bitwise Self-Correction (BSC) to address this issue. In particular, we randomly flip the bits in R k with a probability uniformly sampled from [0, p], imitating different strengths of errors made in the prediction of the k-th scale. After replacing R k with a flipped one as predictions, we recompute the transformer input. Besides, re-quantization is performed to get a new target R k+1 . We also provide a simplified illustration in the below figure for better understanding. Notably, BSC is accomplished by revising the inputs and labels of the transformer. It neither adds extra computational cost nor disrupts the original parallel training characteristics. Overall Performance On GenEval, our model with a re-writer achieves the best overall score of 0.73. Besides, Infinity also reaches the highest position reasoning score of 0.49. On DPG. Our model reaches an overall score of 83.46, surpassing SDXL, Playground v2.5, and DALLE 3. What’s more, Infinity achieves the best relation score of 90.76 among all open-source T2I models, demonstrating its stronger ability to generate spatially consistent images based on user prompts. Human Preference Benchmarks Tab.2 lists the results of two human preference benchmarks, i.e., ImageReward and HPSv2.1. Infinity reaches the highest ImageReward and HPSv2.1, indicating our method could generate images that are more appealing to humans. Inference Latency As in Tab.2, Infinity demonstrates a significant advantage in generation speed compared to diffusion models at around 2 billion parameters (2.6× speedup to SD3-Medium). Furthermore, our tests reveal that the speed advantage of Infinity becomes more substantial as the model size increases. Infinity achieves 7× faster inference latency compared to SD3.5 at the same 8 billion parameters. Scaling Vocabulary We analyze the impact of scaling the vocabulary size under consistent training hyperparameters throughout. Vocabulary size V d = 2 16 converges faster and achieves better results for small models (125M and 361M parameters). As we scale up the model size to 2.2B, Infinity with a vocabulary size V d = 2 32 beats that one with V d = 2 16 . Experiment with 5M high-quality image-text pair data under 256 × 256 resolution. Scaling Model Size We analyze the impact of scaling model size under consistent training hyperparameters throughout Experiment with 10M pre-training data and 256 × 256 resolution. Validation loss smoothly decreases as a function of the model size and training iterations. Besides, Validation loss is a strong predictor of overall model performance. There is a strong correlation between validation loss and holistic image evaluation metrics. BibTeX @misc{han2024infinityscalingbitwiseautoregressive, title={Infinity: Scaling Bitwise AutoRegressive Modeling for High-Resolution Image Synthesis}, author={Jian Han and Jinlai Liu and Yi Jiang and Bin Yan and Yuqi Zhang and Zehuan Yuan and Bingyue Peng and Xiaobing Liu}, year={2024}, eprint={2412.04431}, archivePrefix={arXiv}, primaryClass={cs.CV}, url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04431}, } This website is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License . 
